---
# Title, summary, and page position.
linktitle: Code of Conduct 
weight: 500
icon: task-square-svgrepo-com
icon_pack: fas

# Page metadata.
title: Code of Conduct 
date: "2024-12-12T00:00:00Z"
type: book # Do not modify.
---

_MLRC utilizes [COLM Code of Conduct](https://colmweb.org/CoC.html), which
itself utilizes [ICLR Code of Conduct](https://iclr.cc/public/CodeOfConduct),
which is restated here._

### Why

The open exchange of ideas, the freedom of thought and expression, and
respectful scientific debate are central to the goals of this conference on
language modeling; this requires a community and an environment that recognizes
and respects the inherent worth of every person.

### Who

All participants---attendees, organizers, reviewers, speakers, sponsors, and
volunteers at our conference, workshops, and conference-sponsored social
events---are required to agree with this Code of Conduct both during the event
and on official communication channels, including social media. Organizers will
enforce this code, and we expect cooperation from all participants to help
ensure a safe and productive environment for everybody.

### Scope

The conference commits itself to provide an experience for all participants that
is free from harassment, bullying, discrimination, and retaliation. This
includes offensive comments related to gender, gender identity and expression,
age, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race,
ethnicity, religion (or lack thereof), politics, technology choices, or any
other personal characteristics. Bullying, intimidation, personal attacks,
harassment, sustained disruption of talks or other events, and behavior that
interferes with another participant's full participation will not be tolerated.
This includes sexual harassment, stalking, following, harassing photography or
recording, inappropriate physical contact, unwelcome sexual attention, public
vulgar exchanges, and diminutive characterizations, which are all unwelcome in
this community.

The expected behavior in line with the scope above extends to any format of the
conference, including any virtual forms, and to the use of any online tools
related to the conference. These include comments on OpenReview within or
outside of reviewing periods, conference-wide chat tools, Q&A tools, live stream
interactions, and any other forms of virtual interaction. Trolling, use of
inappropriate imagery or videos, offensive language either written or in-person
over video or audio, unwarranted direct messages (DMs), and extensions of such
behavior to tools outside those used by the conference but related to the
conference, its program and attendees, are not allowed. In addition, doxxing or
revealing any personal information to target any participant will not be
tolerated.

Sponsors are equally subject to this Code of Conduct. In particular, sponsors
should not use images, activities, or other materials that are of a sexual,
racial, or otherwise offensive nature. Sponsor representatives and staff
(including volunteers) should not use sexualized clothing/uniforms/costumes or
otherwise create a sexualized environment. This code applies both to official
sponsors as well as any organization that uses the conference name as branding
as part of its activities at or around the conference.

### Outcomes

Participants asked by any member of the community to stop any such behavior are
expected to comply immediately. If a participant engages in such behavior, the
conference organizers may take any action they deem appropriate, including: a
formal or informal warning to the offender, expulsion from the conference
(either physical expulsion, or termination of access codes) with no refund,
barring from participation in future conferences or their organization,
reporting the incident to the offender's local institution or funding agencies,
or reporting the incident to local law enforcement. A response of "just joking"
will not be accepted; behavior can be harassing without an intent to offend. If
action is taken, an appeals process will be made available.

### Reporting

If you have concerns related to your inclusion at that conference, or observe
someone else's difficulties, or have any other concerns related to inclusion,
please email the MLRC PCs at
[reproducibility.challenge@gmail.com](mailto:reproducibility.challenge@gmail.com).
For online events and tools, there are options to directly report specific
chat/text comments, in addition to the above reporting. Complaints and
violations will be handled with discretion. Reports made during the conference
will be responded to within 24 hours; those at other times in less than two
weeks. We are prepared and eager to help participants contact relevant help
services, to escort them to a safe location, or to otherwise assist those
experiencing harassment to feel safe for the duration of the conference. We
gratefully accept feedback from the community on policy and actions; please
contact us.
